{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red176\green58\blue239;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c75188\c35596\c95160;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Title:
\f1\b0 \cf2  Modeling the role of pragmatics in truth-value judgments\

\f0\b \cf2 Abstract:
\f1\b0 \cf2  \
Research into children\'92s understanding of language commonly employs truth-value judgments: whether a sentence can truthfully describe a given scenario. On the basis of such judgments, researchers have concluded that young children perform quite differently from adults when it comes to understanding ambiguous utterances with multiple potential meanings. For example, when adults hear \'93Every horse didn\'92t jump over the fence,\'94 they entertain two interpretations: either none of the horses jumped or not all of the horses jumped. Children usually only endorse the \'93none\'94 interpretation, rejecting the utterance in a scenario where only two out of three horses jumped. However, subtle changes to the truth-value judgment task setup make children more adult-like. I summarize key results from the literature on child ambiguity resolution, noting three core factors that affect children\'92s disambiguation behavior. One of these factors concerns children\'92s processing ability: how easy it is to access the different grammatical interpretations. The other two factors concern children\'92s ability to manage the pragmatic context: understanding what the topic of conversation is (i.e., the QUD), and modulating expectations about the world being described (i.e., which states are likelier than others). \
\
In an attempt to identify the role of each factor in children\'92s language understanding, I formally articulate a cognitive computational model within the Rational Speech Act framework that specifies the role of each of these three factors in providing truth-value judgments. The results suggest that pragmatic factors play a larger role than grammatical processing factors in explaining children\'92s non-adult-like behavior, and the computational model offers a hypothesis as to why that\'92s so: pragmatic factors have a larger impact on informativity, which serves as the ultimate arbiter of utterance endorsement in the truth-value judgment task.}