{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 When we think about what our sentences mean, we often worry about their truth conditions, or what it would take for the sentence to be true. What does the world look like that our sentence describes? Now, to arrive at those truth conditions, and thereby arrive at the meaning of a sentence, we rely on our truth value judgments: could a sentence truthfully describe a given scenario.\
\
Well, today I\'92d like to offer you a cautionary tale for obtaining these truth value judgments. So let me walk you through what it takes to get such judgments.\
\
Imagine you\'92re in a world where you have three different horses. \
\
And I see that horse number 1 jumps over a fence.\
\
Horse number 2 also jumps over the fence.\
\
But horse number 3 decides that he\'92s not going to jump over the fence.\
\
So after this little scenario, the world looks like this: where 1 and 2 have jumped, 3 doesn\'92t. And now I tell you that Mary here comes in and describes the scenario as follows: every horse didn\'92t jump over the fence. Would you endorse that sentence as true or false? Did Mary speak correctly or not?\
\
Well what\'92s interesting is that adults and kids give very different patterns of responses. Adults readily endorse this utterance as a discretion of this two out of three scenario, but kids do not. \
\
Now what\'92s interesting about these judgments is that they inform our interpretation of what\'92s known as scope ambiguity. So this sentence is ambiguous.\
\
It has what\'92s known as a surface interpretation, whereby we say that none of the horses jumped.\
\
It also has what\'92s known as an inverse interpretation where we say that not all of the horses jumped.\
\
Now what\'92s interesting about this ambiguity is that you\'92ll notice that only the inverse interpretation is true in this two out of three scenario: It\'92s not the case that none of the horses jumped, but it is the case that not all of them did. So maybe we would conclude that adults are able to access this inverse interpretation of the sentence grammatically in a way that kids are not. Kids are only getting the surface interpretation. Well that\'92s not the end of the story\'85\
\
because in fact we can make kids a lot more adult like in their behavior, meaning we can get them to endorse this utterance more.\
\
Here\'92s one way to get them to endorse the utterance more using what\'92s known as an explicit contrast clause. So now I tell you every horse jumped over the log, but every horse didn\'92t jump over the fence. Now kids are going to endorse that sentence 60% of the time. Why might they do that?\
\
Well, this explicit contrast clause here plausibly affects our world knowledge, or out expectations about how likely horses are to succeed at jumping. So if I tell you every horse jumped over the log, I might prime you to believe that horses are very good at jumping. \
\
This explicit contrast also might affect conversation topic. So if it\'92s relevant that every horse jumped over the log, you might then want to know whether or not all the horses jumped over the fence. So I might shift the topic of conversation form whether or not none of the horses did to whether all of the horses did.\
\
Interestingly, I can get the same sort of result if I explicitly change the conversation topic with goals. So if I make it relevant whether the man found all of the horses, and then I tell you the man didn\'92t find some horses, here the kid is going to endorse the utterance 90% of the time.\
\
So, why is it that we can make kids endorse the utterance more? How are we making them more adult like? It could be that we\'92re affecting their world knowledge, or their expectations about the conversational topic, or it could be that we\'92re affecting some grammatical factor that determines the logical scope of things like every and negation. Now, given the remarkable interaction of all of these factors as we\'92re understanding language, it\'92s incredibly difficult to tease apart the independent contributions of these factors. So how are we going to do it? Well..\
\
WE\'92re going to do it by developing a computational cognitive model of this disambiguation process.\
\
It\'92s couched within the rational speech act modeling framework, which views language understanding as recursive social reasoning between speakers and listeners.\
\
So, during communication, a speaker and a listener coordinate of the utterance and interoperation that maximizes the probability of correctly addressing the topic of conversation. They do this with the speaker observing what the state of the world is, choosing an utterance to communicate that state of the world to a listener. The listener hears that utterance and then infers the state of the world by updating the listener\'92s beliefs. Now the good news is..\
\
..this is all just math, and here\'92s a look at that. But for our purposes we\'92re really just interested in the probability of endorsing an ambiguous every-not utterance in one of these two out of three scenarios like you saw. Okay? \
\
So I\'92m going to plot for you these model predictions. On the y-axis you have the probability of endorsing the that every-not utterance. However values mean you\'92re more kid like. Higher values mean you\'92re more adult like. Here we\'92re manipulating the prior probability of a none vs. a not all interpretation, and you\'92ll notice that as I increase that prior probability I am increasing the probability of endorsing that utterance in this two out of three world state.\
\
Next I\'92m plotting for you the results of the manipulation on the world expectations. So, as well move from expectations that tell us that horses are very bad vs. very good at jumping over fences, you\'92ll notice that the endorsement rate jumps up nearly to 90%. \
\
And finally I\'92m showing you here the manipulation of the topic prior. So, changing from whether to not any horse jumped over the fence to whether or not all the horses jumped over the fence, we see a sharp increase endorsement rates. Now what\'92s interesting is..\
\
..when we have these factors interact, so if I\'92m in a situation where it\'92s relevant whether or not all the horses jumped over the fence and I believe that horses are very good jumpers, it doesn\'92t matter what happens to the prior on the grammatical scope access. These pragmatic factors overwhelm it.\
\
This happens because endorsing the utterance requires no disambiguation at all. If it matters whether or not all the horses jumped over the fence or I believe that horses are really really likely to succeed, under either intepretation \'97 none or not all \'97 that utterance is informative: it tells me no it\'92s not the case that all the horses jumped over the fence, which means my prior beliefs that all horses succeed do not hold. \
\
So what that offers us is a cautionary tale for understanding truth value judgments, which means we have to take into account the pragmatic that go into the task.\
\
Thank you very much!}